=================================
About the pygtk-installer project
=================================

The pygtk-installer project provides a set of tools to build the PyGTK
All-in-one installer and it's various dependencies.
There are currently versions of the PyGTK All-in-one installer supporting 32 bit
versions of Python 2.6 and Python 2.7.

Included tools:

- build_glade.sh: a tool that builds glade3 binaries for mswindows with
  "Python Widgets Support" for each supported Python version.
- build_bindings.sh: a tool that builds windows installer packages (both .exe
  and .msi) for pycairo, pygobject, pygtk, pygoocanvas, pygtksourceview and
  pyrsvg for each supported Python version.
- build_installer.py: a tool that generates the all-in-one installer bundling
  the separate .msi installers created by build_bindings.sh, the glade binaries
  created by build_glade.sh and various GTK+ runtime packages from
  ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/binaries/win32/.

====================================
Using the PyGTK All-in-one installer
====================================

The PyGTK All-in-one version number
===================================

The PyGTK All-in-one installers' version number does not map directly to the
PyGTK version number. This is a requirement to support windows installer
major upgrades. The version number is constructed as follows::

    PYGTK_MAJOR.PYGTK_MINOR.INSTALLER_REVISION

Stable releases are kept available for download, testing revisions are removed
from the download area once they are superseded by newer versions.

What file should I use?
=======================

All the .msi files are named as follows:

    pygtk-all-in-one-X.X.X.winYY-pyZ.Z.msi

Where X.X.X is the PyGTK All-in-one version number, YY is 32 or 64 and
Z.Z is the Python version number the installer supports.

You need to make sure both YY and Z.Z correspond to the version of the Python
interpreter that's installed on your system.

I'm new, how do I start?
========================

First, you'll need to install a 32 bit Python interpreter. Currently, you can
choose between Python 2.6 and Python 2.7.

- From http://www.python.org:

    - http://www.python.org/download/releases/
    - http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.6.6/python-2.6.6.msi
    - http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.1/python-2.7.1.msi

- From http://www.activestate.com/activepython:

    - http://www.activestate.com/activepython/downloads
    - http://downloads.activestate.com/ActivePython/releases/2.6.6.17/ActivePython-2.6.6.17-win32-x86.msi
    - http://downloads.activestate.com/ActivePython/releases/2.7.1.3/ActivePython-2.7.1.3-win32-x86.msi


Then you install the PyGTK All-in-one version that matches the Python version
you choose above. It's that easy!

Note: There are currently no 64 bit builds of PyGTK All-in-one!

Migrating from PyGTK+PyGObject+PyCairo packages
===============================================

If you have used some or all of the separate PyGTK, PyGObject, PyGooCanvas,
PyGtkSourceView2, PyRsvg and PyCairo packages before, please ensure they are
uninstalled before you begin with the PyGTK All-in-one installer.

The all-in-one installer does not check for their presence and will happily
overwrite files that belong to the separate packages. If you forget to check
for this you risk the following scenario:

       - install Python
       - install PyCairo, PyGTK and PyGObject
       - install PyGTK All-in-one
       - uninstall PyCairo, PyGTK and PyGObject
       you now have a *broken* pygtk all-in-one installation

This would also be a good time to remove the GTK+ runtime you've used with the
separate PyG* packages and to clean your PATH environment variable.

Note that the PyCaio, PyGObject, PyGTK, PyGoocanvas, PyGtkSourceView2 and PyRsvg
.exe installers (like any other .exe installer generated by distutils) sometimes
leaves things behind when you uninstall them.

Default installation
====================

A default PyGTK All-in-one installation automatically detects the correct
Python installation directory and if Python was installed for all users or just
yourself. These values are then used by the PyGTK All-in-one installer.
To start a default PyGTK All-in-one installation, simply double click the
.msi file or execute the following command from a Command Prompt (cmd.exe)::

    %WINDIR%\system32\msiexec.exe /i pygtk-all-in-one-X.X.X.winYY-pyZ.Z.msi

Custom installation
===================

Like any other Windows Installer package, you can change how PyGTK All-in-one
will be installed on you system by passing parameters (setting public properties
for those familiar with windows installer). Execute `msiexec /help` for a list
of options supported for all .msi installation packages.

Target directory
----------------

The TARGETDIR property determines the root directory of the PyGTK All-in-one
installation. If this property is set, the PyGTK All-in-one installer does
not automatically detect the installation directory of the Python interpreter
installed on you system. For example, a custom installation directory can be
specified with::

    TARGETDIR=R:\pythonX

Before you set a custom TARGETDIR property, you need to make sure both python.exe
and pythonw.exe exist in that directory or the installation will fail.

Installation for All Users
--------------------------

The ALLUSERS property determines if PyGTK All-in-one should be installed for
all users, or only for the user that initiated the installation. If you want
to install for all users, set the ALLUSERS property to "1"::

    ALLUSERS=1

If you want to install for the current user only, you should not specify the
ALLUSERS property at all. Hence, a per user installation is the default installation
mode for custom installations. Note that "1" is the only valid value for the
ALLUSERS property!

You need to combine this property with the TARGETDIR property. Setting ALLUSERS
disables the automatic Python interpreter detection.

Feature Selection
-----------------

The INSTALLLEVEL property determines what features are going to be installed. If
the INSTALLLEVEL property is not set, it's value defaults to 1 which causes a
basic set of features to be installed (GTK+ runtime, PyGTK, PyGObject and PyCairo)

If you set INSTALLLEVEL to 2 (or any number greater than 2), you instruct the
installer to do a "complete" installation (all features will be installed).

There is another method to control what features should be installed by controlling
the ADDLOCAL, REMOVE, ADDDEFAULT, REINSTALL, etc properties. Check MSDN for more
details.

Other msiexec options
---------------------

Take note that if the PyGTK All-in-one installer is run with no or a basic
UI (/q[n|b]) the automatic Python installation detection is skipped. In this
case setting the TARGETDIR property is required. You can also set the ALLUSERS
property if you want a system wide installation.

The PATH environment variable
=============================

The PyGTK All-in-one installer does not require you to fiddle with the PATH
environment variable. The PyGTK version that's installed with the all-in-one
installer takes care of loading the bundled GTK+ runtime on the PATH environment
variable on interpreter startup. As a consequence simply importing gobject,
gtk, etc works out of the box. As an added advantage there is no possible way
multiple GTK+ runtime versions on your system or user PATH environment variable
can interfere with PyGTK All-in-one.

Getting help
============

If something doesn't work as expected, you'll need to generate a couple of log
files before you'll be able to get help. It is simply impossible to determine
why something went wrong without those log files!

If something went wrong when installing, you'll need both

    - An installation log (install.log). Execute the following command from a Command Prompt (cmd.exe)::

        %WINDIR%\system32\msiexec.exe -i pygtk-all-in-one-X.X.X.winYY-pyZ.Z.msi /l*vx install.log

    - An execution log (import.log). Execute the following command from a Command Prompt (cmd.exe)::

        python -v -c "import gtk">import.log 2>&1

If something went wrong when uninstalling, you'll need an unistall log. Execute
the following command from a Command Prompt (cmd.exe)::

    %WINDIR%\system32\msiexec.exe -x pygtk-all-in-one-X.X.X.winYY-pyZ.Z.msi /l*vx uninstall.log

Known issues with 2.22.4
========================

- The bundled svg_pixbuf_loader does not seem to be compatible with the new,
  split gdk-pixbuf-2.22.0. Other svg functionality works fine. See
  https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=637742

    - in practice the gtk+ binaries on ftp.gnome.org are affected by
      libgio-2.0-0.dll needing the freeaddrinfo() function wich is only
      available starting from Windows XP:

        - https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=637565
        - related bug: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=610502#c6
        - related bug: https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=623128
        - http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms737931%28v=vs.85%29.aspx

    - The need for gdiplus.dll:

        - Download the GDI+ Platform SDK redistributable from http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=6a63ab9c-df12-4d41-933c-be590feaa05a&displaylang=en
        - Execute the downloaded WindowsXP-KB975337-x86-ENU.exe and it will ask to extract some files.
        - Copy the extracted asms\\10\\msft\\windows\\gdiplus\\gdiplus.dll file to C:\\Python2X\\Lib\\site-packages\\gtk-2.0\\runtime\\bin
